codegen docs (#234)
tree-sitter/haskell-tree-sitter: docs/codegen.md

- [Tests](#tests)
- [Additional notes](#Additional-notes)
___

### Generating ASTs

To parse source code and produce ASTs locally:

1. Load the REPL for a given language:

```
cabal new-repl lib:tree-sitter-python
```

2. Set language extensions, `OverloadedStrings` and `TypeApplications`, and import relevant modules, `TreeSitter.Unmarshal`, `TreeSitter.Range` and `TreeSitter.Span`:

```
:seti -XOverloadedStrings
:seti -XTypeApplications

import TreeSitter.Span
import TreeSitter.Range
import TreeSitter.Unmarshal
```

3. You can now call `parseByteString`, passing in the desired language you wish to parse (in this case Python exemplified by `tree_sitter_python`), and the source code (in this case binary addition of two identifiers). Since the function is constrained by `(Unmarshal t, UnmarshalAnn a)`, you can use type applications to provide a top-level node `t`, an entry point into the tree, in addition to a polymorphic annotation `a` used to represent range and span:

```
parseByteString @(TreeSitter.Python.AST.Module (TreeSitter.Range.Range, Span)) tree_sitter_python "(a + b)"
```

This generates the following AST:

```

> Right (Module {ann = Range {start = 0, end = 3}, extraChildren = [R1 (SimpleStatement (L1 (R1 (R1 (L1 (ExpressionStatement {ann = Range {start = 0, end = 3}, extraChildren = L1 (L1 (Expression (L1 (L1 (L1 (PrimaryExpression (L1 (L1 (L1 (R1 (BinaryOperator {ann = Range {start = 0, end = 3}, operator = L1 (R1 (R1 (L1 (Token {ann = Range {start = 1, end = 2}})))), left = PrimaryExpression (L1 (R1 (R1 (R1 (R1 (Identifier {ann = Range {start = 0, end = 1}, bytes = "a"})))))), right = PrimaryExpression (L1 (R1 (R1 (R1 (R1 (Identifier {ann = Range {start = 2, end = 3}, bytes = "b"}))))))}))))))))))) :| []}))))))]})

Reviewer: As with other examples we’ve talked about, it might be nice to format this for the benefit of readers. (We don’t need to write code to do it or anything, just hand-formatting it would be fine.)

> ```

Reviewer: You’re probably going to have to indent the code blocks 4 spaces to make them embed into the ordered list.

### Inspecting auto-generated datatypes

Datatypes are derived from a language and its `node-types.json` file using the GenerateSyntax API. Definition can be viewed in the REPL just as they would for any other datatype, using `:i`:

```
:i TreeSitter.Python.AST.Module
```

> This gives us the auto-generated `Module` datatype:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This shows us the auto-generated `Module` datatype:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```haskell
```

                                                                            TreeSitter.Python.AST.SimpleStatement
                                                                            a]}
  	-- Defined at TreeSitter/Python/AST.hs:10:1
instance Show a => Show (TreeSitter.Python.AST.Module a)
  -- Defined at TreeSitter/Python/AST.hs:10:1
instance Ord a => Ord (TreeSitter.Python.AST.Module a)
  -- Defined at TreeSitter/Python/AST.hs:10:1
instance Eq a => Eq (TreeSitter.Python.AST.Module a)
  -- Defined at TreeSitter/Python/AST.hs:10:1
instance Traversable TreeSitter.Python.AST.Module
  -- Defined at TreeSitter/Python/AST.hs:10:1
instance Functor TreeSitter.Python.AST.Module
  -- Defined at TreeSitter/Python/AST.hs:10:1
instance Foldable TreeSitter.Python.AST.Module
  -- Defined at TreeSitter/Python/AST.hs:10:1
instance Unmarshal TreeSitter.Python.AST.Module
  -- Defined at TreeSitter/Python/AST.hs:10:1
instance SymbolMatching TreeSitter.Python.AST.Module
  -- Defined at TreeSitter/Python/AST.hs:10:1
```

### Tests

As of right now, Hedgehog tests are minimal and only in place for the Python library.

To run tests:

> `cabal new-test tree-sitter-python`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`cabal v2-test tree-sitter-python`
```

### Additional notes

- [GenerateSyntax](https://github.com/tree-sitter/haskell-tree-sitter/blob/master/tree-sitter/src/TreeSitter/GenerateSyntax.hs) provides a way to pre-define certain datatypes for which Template Haskell is not used. Any datatypes among the node types which have already been defined in the module where the splice is run will be skipped, allowing customization of the representation of parts of the tree. While this gives us flexibility, we encourage that this is used sparingly, as it imposes extra maintenance burden, particularly when the grammar is changed. This may be used to e.g. parse literals into Haskell equivalents (e.g. parsing the textual contents of integer literals into `Integer`s), and may require defining `TS.UnmarshalAnn` or `TS.SymbolMatching` instances for (parts of) the custom datatypes, depending on where and how the datatype occurs in the generated tree, in addition to the usual `Foldable`, `Functor`, etc. instances provided for generated datatypes.

> - Range and span info is captured by a polymorphic parameter `a`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Annotations are captured by a polymorphic parameter `a`
```

___

### Table of Contents
- [Generating ASTs](#Generating-ASTs)
- [Inspecting auto-generated datatypes](#Inspecting-auto-generated-datatypes)
- [Tests](#tests)
- [Additional notes](#Additional-notes)
___

### Generating ASTs

To parse source code and produce ASTs locally:

1. Load the REPL for a given language:

```
cabal new-repl lib:tree-sitter-python
```

2. Set language extensions, `OverloadedStrings` and `TypeApplications`, and import relevant modules, `TreeSitter.Unmarshal`, `TreeSitter.Range` and `TreeSitter.Span`:

```
:seti -XOverloadedStrings
:seti -XTypeApplications

import TreeSitter.Span
import TreeSitter.Range
import TreeSitter.Unmarshal
```

3. You can now call `parseByteString`, passing in the desired language you wish to parse (in this case Python exemplified by `tree_sitter_python`), and the source code (in this case an integer `1`). Since the function is constrained by `(Unmarshal t, UnmarshalAnn a)`, you can use type applications to provide a top-level node `t`, an entry point into the tree, in addition to a polymorphic annotation `a` used to represent range and span:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```haskell
```

parseByteString @(TreeSitter.Python.AST.Module (TreeSitter.Range.Range, Span)) tree_sitter_python "1"
```

This generates the following AST:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```haskell
```
